Date: October 1, 2014
Title: Influences

As I mentioned in my first blog entry, my project requires me to plan, design, and create a 3D game. My initial game concept was influenced by many sources and I wanted to detail a few of these in this post.

The inspiration for the idea comes from several games, the first of which being Minecraft. One of my favourite parts of Minecraft which is no doubt taken for granted by long-time players is simply the ability to dig away every part of the environment around you. Although it's been a part of Minecraft from the very beginning, its destructible environment is a huge selling point, and in fact Minecraft Classic (creative-only) alone had enough support from the community for Mojang to add Creative mode to the final game.

One of the areas which I think Minecraft is lacking in is mining. Granted, mining itself is a fairly straightforward concept, but when I dig a mine to find resources, it just doesn't really look like a mine unless I spend a long time making it look like one, and then when I'm actually mining, there's nothing to break the endless cycle of {dig dig forward dig dig forward etc} except the occasional random cave formation.

Another huge inspiration for me is The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - particularly its intelligent Radiant AI system. Radiant ensures that you don't go from one edge of the region to the other without something unexpected happening along the way. Some people have criticised this feature because of the clear pattern it employs but, in my opinion, the frequency of them is actually complemented by the insane variety of random events.

Skyrim also focuses very much on free exploration and discovery, but in a very organized way. In fact, Radiant random events can be as simple as a destroyed cart at the side of a road. When the player goes to investigate, they find a journal on a dead body and a quest begins. Even more subtly, there might not be any journal but instead the dead body of the cart owner, as well as the dead body of a raider. The player may ignore this but if they look around, they see a nearby cave with two raiders guarding it.

There are other, smaller, influences that led to my initial game concept, but these are the major ones. I plan to make another post soon, detailing the concept itself and giving an outline of the game mechanics.
